The text and comment in today's examining the scripture's daily was taken from a Watchtower study article with the theme
How can we maintain a waiting attitude?
That's a timely question for all of us to ponder because as that Watchtower said
impatience can be dangerous
For it can cause us to behave rashly
What's the antidote to impatience?
Open please your Bible to the theme text for that Watchtower study in Micah chapter 7 and verse 7
Let's read Micah 7 7 together and consider for a few moments how Micah's good example can help us to maintain a waiting attitude
That text reads
But as for me, I will keep on the lookout for Jehovah
I will show a waiting attitude or as the footnote says I will wait patiently for the God of my salvation
My God will hear me
It's beautiful that in just that one verse three times Micah refers to his God our God Jehovah
And that's a nice reminder that no matter what the situation is that may cause us to have feelings of impatience
frustration
Whenever we put a problem or a difficulty side-by-side with our God
Jehovah what happens to the situation?
It appears smaller
manageable with his help
We might conclude as did Brother Carl Klein as published in his life story that if Jehovah permits it
We can take it
With Jehovah's help we can patiently endure any trial
circumstance situation as long as necessary without losing our joy
Micah was confident of that
Look again at chapter 7 and verse 7
By saying that he would keep on the lookout for Jehovah
In effect, Micah was saying that he was determined to become like an active century on a Watchtower
So let's try to picture that a wide-eyed
Watchman on high alert
That was Micah spiritually speaking
He was determined not to get impatient not to get frustrated with things that he could not change
Was it easy for Micah to maintain a waiting attitude?
Probably not
Notice the context that reveals what circumstances were like in Israel in Judah in Micah's time
Notice is you consider some of the thoughts there beginning in verse 2 of Micah chapter 7
He says the loyal one has perished from the earth
Verse 3 their hands are expert at doing what is bad
Verse 4
Their best one is like thorns
Their most upright one is worse than a thorn hedge
In fact in verse 5 he says do not put your faith in your companion or trust a close friend
Guard what you say to the one who lies in your embrace
Verse 6 for a son despises his father
A daughter rises up against her mother and a daughter in law is against her mother in law
A man's enemies are the men of his own household
Yes, times were difficult when Micah was alive during wicked King Ahaz's rule
The spiritual and moral conditions in Israel deteriorated to an appalling state
Can you relate to Micah's circumstances?
All of Jehovah's people today experience a test of endurance a test of patience because we're living in a selfish world
Where according to the scriptures people are unthankful
disloyal they have no natural affection
True Christians are objects of hatred as Jesus foretold
Some of our brothers and sisters experience hatred
Opposition at school and at work nearly every day
Sometimes that hatred is within the family from unbelieving family members
Think too about the hatred that our brothers and sisters are experienced to our
Imprisoned
I can't help but think about the two sisters and Isaac by John that we're praying fervently for
Because of their unjust persecution or 600 more in Eritrea
Nagorno-Karaba
Singapore South Korea and Turkmenistan
Those are injustices that we long to see corrected. We'd love to see those situations change today
But are we impatient?
No, we cultivate a waiting attitude
Added to these circumstances are the health problems that many of our brothers and sisters are facing
These two are tests of patience tests of endurance
Maybe you're dealing with a health challenge or a family member or friend of yours is battling one of these to a greater or lesser degree
It may be think of the broadcast for this month for December where we met Sabina Hernandez in Panama
Who was born with a severe handicap since birth her life has been anything but normal
But what an encouragement she is
She's come to trust in Jehovah like Micah. She's developed a waiting attitude and this sister
Is doing her best to serve Jehovah despite her health challenge
She looks forward to the day when those circumstances will change and we do too
We'd love to see it today, wouldn't we?
Of course those problems will end and likely it will happen sooner than we think
But whether the end of our circumstances that are so difficult comes today or a little later
What can Micah's example teach us?
We'll think a little deeper about Micah
Micah served faithfully for some six decades some 60 years
He did live to see the fulfillment of some of Jehovah's judgment messages
He did see some good footage from his prophesying activity
But did Micah live to see the fulfillment of all of Jehovah's promises?
No
So what helped him to wait patiently to keep active to be confident in Jehovah
It was his absolute confidence that Jehovah would in time fulfill all of his promises
He trusted completely in him
Well by way of a reminder what two practical steps could we do
Or do more fully that will help us to cultivate that same trusting
Confident waiting attitude
The first is the text found at first Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 17
Let's read that together first Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 17
Perhaps you haven't memorized. It's one of the easiest verses to do that
two words
What does it tell us to do?
Pray constantly
We need to remember that prayer is real communication with God
We can never be charged with talking too much to Jehovah
When it comes to real communication with God the watchtower cited this text and said
He's willing to listen endlessly to those who do his will
Let's accept that invitation. Let's pray constantly about the things that distress us
Let's cultivate the trust in him by praying specifically about the things that we need help with
But what if we pray constantly and we're enduring a situation and the problem persists what then
Notice Luke 11 verse 9, please
Jesus words
Give us every reason for confidence when it says at Luke 11 9
So I say to you keep on asking and it will be given you
Keep on seeking and you will find keep on knocking and it will be open to you
Yes, we want to do what's with ever in our power to solve our problems
Having confidence that in time Jehovah will give us the solution and until then he'll help us endure
Remember what happens to a mountain when it's put next to Jehovah
It becomes a molehill
We need to turn mountains into mole hills by throwing our concerns upon Jehovah in prayer
Micah's confidence was not misplaced
Soon he'll be back with us in the resurrection to witness the fulfillment of all of Jehovah's promises that he patiently waited for
So like him may we curb our natural feelings of impatience by keeping wide awake in faith always on the lookout for Jehovah